# Inf1A-FP-Comp
Submission for Inf1A Competition

Matthieu Martin s2226380

This haskell file creates an animation of lines being mapped between points on parametric curves.

Gloss
- this program uses the haskell library Gloss (see import Graphics.Gloss at the top of the program in main.hs).
- gloss can be installed using
 
	> stack update
	> stack install gloss

N.B - while personally installing Gloss on Windows 10, I found an issue relating to freeglut. This can be solved by following the steps detailed in the first answer to this question on stackoverflow (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8956387/cant-get-freeglut-to-work-with-haskell-on-windows)

Running the program
- this program can be run by opening the command line and typing
	>stack ghci
	>:l main
	>main


Explanation and Background
- This program is inspired by a youtube video made about a fascinating short documentary produced by New York Museum of Modern Art (both of which will be 
linked at the bottom of the file) about computer produced motion graphics made at IBM during the 1960s. The youtube video provided a tutorial on how to 
recreate this art in Processing, a graphic JavaScript library, but I adapted and translated the code to make it work in Haskell using the Gloss library.
 
This program works by generating 2 parametric equations which manipulate the x and y coordinates based on a numeric parameter t that is generated by the animate 
function in gloss as time goes on. The points at time t are then mapped to each other using the line function, leading to the animateLine functions. The trailing
line effect functions are created by rerunning the animateLine functions with a slight time delay. Notice also that to create a mirroring effect of the Red and White
functions, the functions are mirrored by negating the equations for coordinates. (this is also the case for the Blue and Green functions)


Links to the videos
> youtube video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LaarVR1AOvs (Recreating Vintage Computer Art with Processing)

> documentary link - https://archive.org/details/experimentsinmotiongraphics

This won an award!!!  -  https://lollobaldo.github.io/fp-competition-2021/webpage
